---
title: 'Entrepreneurs vs Intrapreneurs Books for 2021'
date: 2021-02-18
permalink: /posts/2021/18/
tags:
  - books
  - intrapreneurs
  - entrepreneurs
---

1. [The Tyranny of Merit: What's Become of the Common Good?](https://www.amazon.com/Tyranny-Merit-Whats-Become-Common/dp/0374289980/ref=sr_1_1?dchild=1&keywords=The+Tyranny+of+Merit&qid=1613663524&s=books&sr=1-1) by Michael J.Sandel.The Tyranny of Merit deftly exposes the flaws and fallacies of meritocratic philosophy. In lucid, illuminating prose, Sandel makes a compelling case for uprooting inequality and building a fairer society shaped by true principles of justice. A seminal work. I like books where I don't always 100% agree with the author, because it helps me to question what I think and to consider whether I should change my own stance. Otherwise we live in echo chambers sucking up everything that validates our lifestyle, politics, values and actions.
2. [Whole Earth Discipline: An Ecopragmatist Manifesto](https://www.amazon.com/Whole-Earth-Discipline-Ecopragmatist-Manifesto/dp/0670021210) by Steward Brand.This is the most important book I have read in a decade with respect to the environmental problems we face. Brand has impeccable credentials as an environmentalist and he has done a 180 degree turn and now advocates nuclear energy as fast as possible to avoid the worst of the train wreck climate change coming fast on us. He compelling shows how solar and wind cannot do the job fast enough, if ever, because we'd need literally a continent-sized area covered with solar and wind to power the great cities of the world. Renewable works for small towns and individuals but not cities of 10 million people crammed together.

Finally, and here is the kicker. Even with going nuclear and renewable fast, we STILL probably will need to Geo-engineer the atmosphere with aerosols to reflect sunlight and prevent the tropics and some of the mid-latitudes from becoming so hot that humans literally cannot live there. I heard today on the radio that these temperatures already have hit India and other tropical countries-- days over 110 degrees F at 80% humidity--and the numbers of days like this are increasing. In the American west, temperatures today reached all time record highs well above 100 degrees (but dry). Hence the fires. And in the Arctic today, temperatures were in the 90's meaning if this continues in the future, the methane there buried in the permafrost will burp out to drive the warming spectacularly faster than even now. Forget methane leaking from fracking folks, this methane emission will be hundreds of times greater.

It's well worth reading this book to see if you have the emotional fortitude to reset your environmental thinking from the past to the future and help decide what to do when the going gets really tough, which most climatologists I know think will be in the next ten years, if not sooner. Basically, the runaway climate horse is out of the barn now and there is no way to really bring it back in the short term--which is what we have to think in terms of, not Paris Climate or other half-assed accords that reduce the problem so slightly to be inconsequential. I found this book to be so important I'm preparing a lecture based, in part on it, as an address to a large earth science society that I will be president of in 2020.

Headings are cool
======

You can have many headings
======

Aren't headings cool?
------
