---
title: 'Getting into Game Development'
date: 2021-02-16
permalink: /posts/2021/02/gameDev/
tags:
  - gameDev
  - ml
  - game development
  - ai
---

What should you know about Game Development industry?
How quickly get into the Game Development: books, documentaries, podcasts?

Not so far, I'm working in the game industy, so I learned a lot information from different sources just for getting into the industry and here best of them.

Resources
======

1.1 A book about creating games: ["Blood, Sweat and Pixels: The Triumphant, Turbulent Stories Behind How Video Games Are Made"](https://www.amazon.com/Blood-Sweat-Pixels-Triumphant-Turbulent-ebook/dp/B01NAKSWW1) by Jason Schreier" (about "The Witcher 3", "Diablo 3", "Destiny")

The book is well written, full of nifty details about the industry that feel refreshing and eye opening at how videogames are made from a production standpoint. Taking ten games, ranging from indie-darlings to the most-high profile games made in the last decade, author investigates the prouction process to determine what does it take to make a hit game. Written as a series of exemplars, Jason Schreir highlights how each game's developmnet is different but expreience common challenges.

It's not a technical/geeky book, so if you're into the nuts-and-bolts of writing games or how to develop a game, this isn't the book for you. It's pretty high level and while quite interesting as to how these gaming companies managed to release their games, there's nothing that exciting here


You can have many headings
======

Aren't headings cool?
------
